.TH geomodels-cli "1" Manual
.SH NAME
geomodels-cli
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B geomodels-cli
[-h] [--version] [--loglevel {DEBUG,INFO,WARNING,ERROR,CRITICAL}] [-q] [-v] [--debug] {info,install-data,import-igrf,test} ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
Command Line Interface (CLI) for the geomodels package.
.SH OPTIONS

.TP
\fB\-\-version\fR
show program's version number and exit

.TP
\fB\-\-loglevel\fR {DEBUG,INFO,WARNING,ERROR,CRITICAL}
logging level (default: WARNING)

.TP
\fB\-q\fR, \fB\-\-quiet\fR
suppress standard output messages, only errors are printed to screen (set
.br
"loglevel" to "ERROR")

.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
print verbose output messages (set "loglevel" to "INFO")

.TP
\fB\-\-debug\fR
print debug messages (set "loglevel" to "DEBUG")

.SS
\fBSub-commands\fR
.TP
\fBgeomodels-cli\fR \fI\,info\/\fR
provide information about the platform, library versions and
.TP
\fBgeomodels-cli\fR \fI\,install-data\/\fR
download and install the data necessary for models computation.
.TP
\fBgeomodels-cli\fR \fI\,import-igrf\/\fR
Import magnetic field data from IGRF text format.
.TP
\fBgeomodels-cli\fR \fI\,test\/\fR
Run the test suite for the geomodels package.
.SH OPTIONS 'geomodels-cli info'
usage: geomodels-cli info [-h] [-d DATADIR] [-a] [--data]

Provide information about the platform, library versions and
.br
    installed data.


.TP
\fB\-d\fR \fI\,DATADIR\/\fR, \fB\-\-datadir\fR \fI\,DATADIR\/\fR
specifies where the model data are stored (default:
.br
'/usr/share/GeographicLib').

.TP
\fB\-a\fR, \fB\-\-all\fR
show both versions and platform info and also information about installed data

.TP
\fB\-\-data\fR
show info about installed data

.SH OPTIONS 'geomodels-cli install-data'
usage: geomodels-cli install-data [-h] [-b BASE_URL] [-d DATADIR]
                                  [--no-progress]
                                  {all,minimal,recommended,geoids,gravity,magnetic,egm84-30,egm84-15,egm96-15,egm96-5,egm2008-5,egm2008-2_5,egm2008-1,egm84,egm96,egm2008,wgs84,wmm2010,wmm2015,wmm2020,igrf11,igrf12,emm2010,emm2015,emm2017}

Download and install the data necessary for models computation.
.br

.br
    GeoModels uses external data to perform geoid, gravity and magnetic
.br
    field computations.
.br

.br
    It is possible to install different subsets of data:
.br

.br
    :minimal:
.br
        only data for the default model of each kind (geoid,
.br
        gravity and magnetic field) are installed,
.br
    :recommended:
.br
        install the `minimal` set of data (see above) plus few
.br
        additional and commonly used data (it is guaranteed that
.br
        the `recommended` subset always includes all data that
.br
        are necessary to run the test suite),
.br
    :all:
.br
        install all available data (about 670MB of disk space
.br
        required),
.br
    :geoids:
.br
        install data for all supported geoids,
.br
    :gravity:
.br
        install data for all supported gravity models,
.br
    :magnetic:
.br
        install data for all supported magnetic field models.
.br

.br
    Additionally the it is possible to install data for a single model.
.br
    

.TP
\fB{all,minimal,recommended,geoids,gravity,magnetic,egm84\-30,egm84\-15,egm96\-15,egm96\-5,egm2008\-5,egm2008\-2_5,egm2008\-1,egm84,egm96,egm2008,wgs84,wmm2010,wmm2015,wmm2020,igrf11,igrf12,emm2010,emm2015,emm2017}\fR
model(s) to be installed

.TP
\fB\-b\fR \fI\,BASE_URL\/\fR, \fB\-\-base\-url\fR \fI\,BASE_URL\/\fR
specifies the base URL for the download (default:
.br
'https://downloads.sourceforge.net/project/geographiclib/').

.TP
\fB\-d\fR \fI\,DATADIR\/\fR, \fB\-\-datadir\fR \fI\,DATADIR\/\fR
specifies where the datasets should be stored (default:
.br
'/usr/share/GeographicLib').

.TP
\fB\-\-no\-progress\fR
suppress progress bar display

.SH OPTIONS 'geomodels-cli import-igrf'
usage: geomodels-cli import-igrf [-h] [-o OUTPATH] [--force] path

Import magnetic field data from IGRF text format.

.TP
\fBpath\fR
path or URL of the IGRF text file

.TP
\fB\-o\fR \fI\,OUTPATH\/\fR, \fB\-\-outpath\fR \fI\,OUTPATH\/\fR
specifies the output data path (default:
.br
PosixPath('/usr/share/GeographicLib/magnetic')).

.TP
\fB\-\-force\fR
overwrite existing files (default: False).

.SH OPTIONS 'geomodels-cli test'
usage: geomodels-cli test [-h] [-d DATADIR] [--verbosity VERBOSITY]
                          [--failfast]

Run the test suite for the geomodels package.


.TP
\fB\-d\fR \fI\,DATADIR\/\fR, \fB\-\-datadir\fR \fI\,DATADIR\/\fR
specifies where the model data are stored (default:
.br
'/usr/share/GeographicLib').

.TP
\fB\-\-verbosity\fR \fI\,VERBOSITY\/\fR
verbosity level for the unittest runner (default: 1).

.TP
\fB\-\-failfast\fR
stop the test run on the first error or failure (default: False).

.SH AUTHORS
.B geomodels
was written by Antonio Valentino <antonio dot valentino at tiscali.it>.
.SH DISTRIBUTION
The latest version of geomodels may be downloaded from
.UR https://github.com/avalentino/geomodels
.UE
